So, I was born, 18 years ago. I know, surprising. Little thing to know, though, is I was born with protanomaly, a genetic defect that makes the L-cones in my eyes defective. It's a defect that affects a small percentage of people, mainly guys. It prevents me from doing a bunch of things that other people would think of as easy or normal...
*look down, all sad for a sec*
...like distinguish between different shades of red.

Yeah, protanomaly means red-colorblind. It actually means red color-deficient, which is kinda important but not really. And I do mean red, not green, and not red-green. Lots of people I mention this to talk about how they have a color blind relative or friend and how they have "red-green" colorblindness. Turns out you're either one, or the other, because your eyes only see three colors: red, green, and blue. If you were red-green blind you'd only see blue, which would basically be greyscale, which is what everyone THINKS I see. 

It's annoying when the whole colorblindness thing comes up. It started in the --7th grade--. Oh yeah. I was in an art class with one of the most feared teachers in the school: Mrs. Naumik. All was going fine, we were going over the color wheel, etc. She mentioned cross-hatching, (anyone know what that is? no? cool) which is basically this thing where you draw two colors in different diagonal lines, blending them together? I don't get it, I don't go to art school. So the assignment was, we had to cross hatch a RED, and a GREEN. ...you see where the problem was. 
So I go home, and normally I would have used Crayons. If you're wondering how I got through kindergarden and crap without being able to tell which colors were which, let me introduce you to the greatest innovation in art: labeled crayons. Seriously, that shit saved my ass all the time. Sky is blue. Time to draw the sky? Find the one labeled blue, all's good. But then came those giant art sets. You know the ones. The big, briefcase looking ones with a fuckton of colored pencils, pastels, watercolor paints, you name it, it had it. You were the king of elementary school if you busted one of those out for a group project. But you know what they didn't have? The one thing they couldn't offer in their gigantic, spacious packages? LABELS. 

So I'm sitting here, I need to use colored pencils to cross hatch red and green, and I have a boatload of unlabeled colored pencils. I gave it my best shot. I go in the next day, and she's checking everyone's assignments. We all had them out in front of us, and I was comparing mine to the ones around me thinking to myself "aw yes, I got this." She gets to me and just kinda stops. She stands there, over my shoulder, staring. I look at the clock, watch a few ridiculously long seconds pass by, and she breaks the silence with a "So, don't be offended when I ask this, but...are you color blind?" 